proboscis monkeys they are named after
their strange tumescent noses but
proboscis have also been called the cows
of the canopy they are the only primate
with a digestive system equipped to chew
the cud
to minimize the level of any poison in
their bodies no one plant can dominate
their diet so they are constantly on the
move and then pick only the youngest
less toxic leaves their immense bellies
are packed with a very long extended gut
and a complex stomach with four separate
chambers that take 50 hours to digest
dinner and despite all this most of the
forests foliage is too difficult to
digest in this nutrient war driven by
the monsoon the trees are run away
winners they not only did take the
bodies and lifestyles of these monkeys
but ensure that the density of mammals
is kept low